{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Q1: 2 encounters and then they merge at 3rd encounter.\
\
Q2:  The velocity peaks when the separation is smallest and is at a minimum when the separation is largest.  Energy is being exchanged - from potential energy to kinetic at pericenter. The opposite occurs at apocenter.\
\
\
Q3:  a) MW-M31 Merger will occur in ~ 6.2 Gyr \
Note that the force resolution (gravitational softening) of the N-body is of order 3 kpc.\
Separations a few times that scale are not going to be well resolved.  \
\
b) M33's orbit is slowly decaying over time, but the orbit does change a bit at the time of the merger\
and starts to decay more quickly. This is because there is more material in the central regions of the \
combined MW+M31 object than about M31 alone. \
\
\
Bonus: \
\
\
The orbital period decays from ~110 to 90 over 1.5 Gyr then from 90 to 75 over 1.2 Gyr \
if this rate of decay were to continue, you would expect it to take 75 /[(110-90)/1.5] ~ 5.6 Gyr for the orbit of M33 to decay from 75 kpc. \
\
BUT the rate of decay is slowing down by the end of the simulation - rate of (75-70)kpc/1 Gyr ~ 4 kpc/Gyr. At that rate it would take almost 19 Gyr to merge!   Galaxies merge because their orbits decay owing to dynamical friction. This friction term scales with the mass of the galaxy. As M33's mass is stripped by tidal effects, the strength of dynamical friction weakens and the decay rate of the orbit slows.  It will take a very long time for the M33 remnant to merge! \
\
\
But it even looks like the rate of decay is slowing down by the end of the simulation - so it could take much longer. \
\
If you don't decrease RMAX by 4 for M33 the Orbit will look pretty ratty because there is a lot of tidal debris\
Another, more clever way, would be to use a smaller volume centered on the COM from the previous snapshot as the starting point. }